1

Parallel Fuzzing of IoT Messaging Protocols
through Collaborative Packet Generation
Zhengxiong Luo† , Junze Yu† , Qingpeng Du‡ , Yanyang Zhao†∗ , Feifan Wu† , Heyuan Shi§ ,
Wanli Chang¶ , and Yu Jiang†∗
† KLISS, BNRist, School of Software, Tsinghua University
‡ Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications § Central South University ¶ Hunan University

Abstract—Internet of Things (IoT) messaging protocols play an
important role in facilitating communications between users and
IoT devices. Mainstream IoT platforms employ brokers, serverside implementations of IoT messaging protocols, to enable and
mediate this user-device communication. Due to the complex
nature of managing communications among devices with diverse
roles and functionalities, comprehensive testing of the protocol
brokers necessitates collaborative parallel fuzzing. However, being unaware of the relationship between test packets generated by
different parties, existing parallel fuzzing methods fail to explore
the brokers’ diverse processing logic effectively.
This paper introduces MPF UZZ, a parallel fuzzing tool designed to secure IoT messaging protocols through collaborative
packet generation. The approach leverages the critical role of
certain fields within IoT messaging protocols that specify the
logic for message forwarding and processing by protocol brokers.
MPF UZZ employs an information synchronization mechanism to
synchronize these key fields across different fuzzing instances and
introduces a semantic-aware refinement module that optimizes
generated test packets by utilizing the shared information and
field semantics. This strategy facilitates a collaborative refinement
of test packets across otherwise isolated fuzzing instances, thereby
boosting the efficiency of parallel fuzzing. We evaluated MPF UZZ
on six widely-used IoT messaging protocol implementations.
Compared to two state-of-the-art protocol fuzzers with parallel
capabilities, Peach and AFLNet, as well as two representative parallel fuzzers, SPFuzz and AFLTeam, MPF UZZ achieves
(6.1%, 174.5×), (20.2%, 607.2×), (1.9%, 4.1×), and (17.4%,
570.2×) higher branch coverage and fuzzing speed under the
same computing resource. Furthermore, MPF UZZ exposed 7
previously unknown vulnerabilities in these extensively tested
projects, all of which have been assigned with CVE identifiers.
Index Terms—IoT Messaging Protocol, Parallel Fuzzing, Collaborative Packet Generation

I. I NTRODUCTION

I

NTERNET of Things (IoT) represents a transformative
shift in the industrial landscape, marked by the interconnectedness of devices, sensors, and actuators to facilitate
seamless data exchange and collaborative decision-making [1].
By merging digital and physical systems, this advanced integration enables industries to boost productivity, streamline
maintenance, and elevate operational efficiency. Nonetheless,
the widespread adoption of IoT technologies also escalates
security concerns, with vulnerable devices presenting potential
targets for cyber-attacks, risking serious consequences [2],
[3]. Critical to securing and stabilizing the IoT ecosystem,
messaging protocols dictate device and user communications.
∗ Corresponding authors

However, these protocol implementations are vulnerable to
cyber threats that can compromise data confidentiality, integrity, and availability, as well as disrupt industrial operations.
Addressing these security flaws in IoT messaging protocols
is imperative to ensure system integrity and avert the severe
outcomes of cyber attacks [4].
Fuzzing, an automated software testing method, is promising for identifying security vulnerabilities in real-world software. At a high level, a protocol fuzzer works by continuously
generating and sending test packets to the target server to uncover potential anomalies. Based on the packet generation way,
fuzzers can be categorized into two categories: mutation-based
methods such as AFLNet [5] and Polar [6], and generationbased methods such as Peach [7] and Boofuzz [8]. Mutationbased fuzzers, lacking awareness of the protocol structure,
randomly modify existing packets at the byte or bit level, resulting in quick testing but potentially encountering challenges
in passing the protocol parsing stage. Conversely, generationbased fuzzers leverage user-defined protocol models to create
test packets that adhere to the protocol specifications, offering
a more precise but slower approach that may require additional
model construction and processing resources.
In IoT systems, numerous users simultaneously communicate with brokers to access and manage distinct production
resources. It is essential for the broker to identify resources
being accessed by various users and devices, while also
maintaining the integrity of these communications. This is
achieved by utilizing fields with special semantics, which we
call key fields, to track these correlations. Considering this
scenario of multiple interconnected communications, single
fuzzing instances are insufficient for exhaustive testing of
the entire messaging protocol workflow. Therefore, employing
parallel fuzzing with multiple instances concurrently is crucial
for the comprehensive testing of IoT messaging protocols.
Traditional parallel fuzzing methods for generation-based
fuzzers mainly focus on non-conflicting task division across
multiple instances, while neglecting the correlation among
the packets produced by each instance. However, for the
IoT messaging protocols, the key fields in the packets are
closely related to each other, rendering the outputs of distinct instances interconnected. Therefore, it is essential to
consider this correlation, moving beyond the conventional
isolated parallel fuzzing framework. To achieve this, we need
to address two challenges. (i) The first challenge is how
to effectively synchronize information across parallel fuzzing

2

instances. Since complicated synchronization schemes and
excessive data exchange can cause significant overhead, it
is essential to design a lightweight and efficient mechanism.
(ii) The second challenge involves the utilization of the shared
information by each fuzzing instance. Merely maintaining key
fields’ consistency across instances falls short of effectively
exploring the broker’s varied processing capabilities. It is
essential to introduce variations for the key fields to explore
diverse scenarios while considering their semantics.
To address these challenges, we propose MPF UZZ, a coordinated parallel fuzzing tool for securing IoT messaging
protocols. The basic idea is to break the isolation between
parallel fuzzing instances and enable them to collaboratively
generate test packets by sharing key field information. MPF UZZ first introduces a lightweight synchronization mechanism that enables effective information sharing among parallel
fuzzing instances. This mechanism leverages one global field
pool and multiple local field pools bonded to each fuzzing
instance to synchronize the key field information across instances. Meanwhile, this mechanism designed a structured
data format to store the shared information, ensuring minimal
data exchange overhead. Then, based on the synchronized
information, MPF UZZ introduces a semantic-aware refinement
strategy for each fuzzing instance to optimize the generated
packets. Considering the distinctive characteristics of IoT
messaging protocols, we propose a method to leverage the
shared key field information. For fields with distinct semantics,
we apply customized mutation operations to refine the packets
generated by each instance. This facilitates a collaborative effort toward exhaustive testing of the broker’s logic, enhancing
the chances of uncovering subtle yet critical vulnerabilities.
For the evaluation, we built the proposed parallel fuzzing
method MPF UZZ on top of Peach [7], a widely-used protocol
fuzzer, and evaluated it on six widely-used messaging protocol
implementations. We compared MPF UZZ against AFLNet [5]
and Peach [7], two state-of-the-art protocol fuzzers that support parallel fuzzing, as well as two representative parallel
fuzzers, SPFuzz [9] and AFLTeam [10]. The results show that,
under the parallel fuzzing mode, MPF UZZ achieves significant coverage increase and speed improvements, achieving
(6.1%, 174.5×), (20.2%, 607.2×), (1.9%, 4.1×), and (17.4%,
570.2×), respectively. We also show that MPF UZZ’s parallel
fuzzing strategy can enhance SPFuzz, with the same base
fuzzer as MPF UZZ, by achieving higher coverage. Moreover,
to emphasize the importance of parallel fuzzing for IoT messaging protocols, we conducted a comparison with the single
modes of Peach and AFLNet using equivalent computational
resources over the same time period. MPF UZZ surpassed them
in branch coverage by 10.6% and 28.3%, respectively, over 24
fuzzing hours. Furthermore, MPF UZZ has exposed 7 previously unknown vulnerabilities, and AFLNet, Peach, SPFuzz,
and AFLTeam only expose 2, 4, 5, and 4 of them, respectively.
All these vulnerabilities have been assigned CVEs. MPF UZZ
also shows superiority in identifying known vulnerabilities.
Our main contributions are as follows:
• We propose the idea of coordinated parallel fuzzing for
securing IoT messaging protocols based on collaborative
packet generation.

We propose a lightweight synchronization mechanism for
effectively sharing key field information among fuzzing
instances and design a semantic-aware refinement strategy to optimize the generated packets.
1
• We implement and evaluate MPF UZZ on six widely used
IoT protocol implementations. The results demonstrate
that MPF UZZ outperforms the state-of-the-art and has
exposed many security-critical vulnerabilities.
•

II. BACKGROUND
A. IoT Messaging Protocols
The Internet of Things (IoT) marks a significant technological shift, connecting numerous “smart” devices via the
Internet to exchange data. This network is key to modern innovation, allowing for automation and enhanced functionality
across various sectors, including industrial automation, home
automation, healthcare, and more.
Figure 1 illustrates a typical IoT system communication
architecture. Within this framework, IoT devices (e.g., sensors
and cameras) collect event and telemetry data, which they send
to the control APP for analysis and processing. The control
APP can also send commands to the devices to elicit specific
actions. Communication between these entities is not direct
but is mediated by a centralized broker, ensuring seamless
interaction between the devices and the applications. This
design allows for easy integration or removal of devices and
apps, enhancing flexibility and scalability for various use
cases. In this framework, both the device and the application
can be regarded as clients and the broker as a server.
Messaging Protocols: MQTT, AMQP, CoAP ...

IoT Devices

Event / Telemetry
Data

Event / Telemetry
Data

Command Messages

Command Messages

Broker

APP

Fig. 1: Typical architecture and application of messaging
protocols in IoT systems
Messaging protocols like MQTT, AMQP, and CoAP are
vital for ensuring reliable, efficient, and scalable data transmission in this architecture. They are tailored for IoT constraints—low bandwidth, limited energy, and intermittent connectivity—ensuring appropriate service quality. Importantly,
these protocols are specifically designed to support multiple devices and applications simultaneously, facilitating their
connection and communication via a broker. This multiconnection capability ensures that the system can easily scale
up to support a growing number of devices and applications.
B. Generation-Based Protocol Fuzzing
In protocol fuzzing, generation-based fuzzers, which are
format-aware, are widely used due to the highly structured
nature of protocol packets. They generate packets according to
the user-provided test model [7], [8], [11], which includes data
1 MPF UZZ is available at https://github.com/MPFuzz/MPFuzz.

3

and state models. The data model defines the packet structure
while the state model describes the packet ordering.
Table I details the MQTT SUBSCRIBE and PUBLISH
packet fields, including their descriptions and a Peach description for each. The Peach description, found in the rightmost
column of Table I, utilizes Peach Pit [12] to define field
characteristics relevant to the state-of-the-art protocol fuzzer
Peach [7]. The PUBLISH packet comprises eight to nine
fields: Type, DUP, QoS, Retain, Length, TopicLen,
Topic, and Msg fields are mandatory, while the ID field
is optional (needed only for packets with QoS levels 1 and
2). Expounding upon the properties of each field, the Peach
definitions cover their crucial attributes like field size, type,
value, and mutability. For example, the Type field is a fourbit field with a fixed value of 3, indicating the packet type.
This field can be described as a Flags type and is immutable.
The QoS field is a two-bit field with valid values of 0,
1, and 2, indicating the Quality of Service level for packet
delivery. Since it is an enumeration field, we can describe
it as a Choice type containing three Flags elements (with
values of 0, 1, and 2, respectively). This field is partially
mutable, as the value can be changed to any of the three valid
values (so the overall Choice is mutable, while the individual
Flags elements are immutable). Specially, the Length and
TopicLen fields are relationship fields, as their values are
determined by the lengths of other fields. These fields are
calculated after the referenced fields are generated, and they
are typically immutable to ensure the generated packet meets
the protocol integrity requirements.
Based on the above description, Peach continuously generates consistent packets. In detail, Peach first analyzes the state
model in the provided Pits file to determine the packet order
to be sent, e.g., [CONNECT, SUBSCRIBE, ..., DISCONNECT]
for MQTT. Then, it generates each packet based on its corresponding format specifications. A typical generation strategy
is to randomly select and fuzz a mutable field at a time.
Peach provides a variety of mutation operators for each field
type. These mutation operators are designed to modify the
field’s default value while maintaining the field’s requirements.
Therefore, Peach starts from the top of the format specification
and applies all valid mutations to each field element until all
possible mutations have been used. Since the combination of
the mutable fields and their compliant mutation operators are
enumerable, the fuzzing iterations to be performed are finite.
III. M OTIVATION
We use the MQTT [13] architecture and a simplified packet
flow, as shown in Figure 2, to illustrate the necessity of
collaborative parallel fuzzing for messaging protocols.
A. MQTT architecture

Publisher

❶ SUBSCRIBE
(Topic=“SmartLock”)
❷ SUBSCRIBE ACK
❸ PUBLISH
(Topic=“SmartLock”, Msg=“opened”)
❹ PUBLISH
(Topic=“SmartLock”, Msg=“opened”)

Fig. 2: Simplified MQTT architecture: subscriber, publisher,
and broker with basic message flow

broker for a specific topic “SmartLock”, which is carried
in the Topic field of the packet (¶). The broker then
accepts this request with a SUBSCRIBE ACK packet (·)
and stores the subscription information. Subsequently, when
the corresponding publisher sends a PUBLISH packet to
the broker, which contains the same topic “SmartLock” and
provides the message payload in the Msg field (¸), the broker
processes the packet and forwards the message payload to the
subscriber (¹). The processing and forwarding logic (¹) of the
broker is crucial for ensuring effective communication between
publishers and subscribers. Therefore, the implementation of
this logic is typically complex and should be thoroughly tested
to identify potential vulnerabilities. Besides, simultaneous
processing of disparate requests is an intrinsic characteristic
of the protocol broker (as shown in the red lines in Figure 2),
whereby data packets received from various publishers are
processed by the broker and distributed to distinct subscribers.
To effectively cover the broker’s processing and forwarding
logic, multiple parties should be involved in the testing, which
requires parallel fuzzing.
B. Limitation of Traditional Parallel Fuzzing
There are some existing fuzzers, such as Peach [7], that support parallel fuzzing. For instance, Peach provides a method
to distribute fuzzing tasks across multiple instances, as shown
in Figure 3. As mentioned in Section II, given the protocol
model under test, Peach first computes all operation sequences
to determine the total number of test iterations. Then, to avoid
task conflicts, Peach assigns distinct field mutation tasks to
each instance, ensuring no overlap in the fuzzing process.
This is depicted in Figure 3, where tasks are segmented into
N instances. Each one focuses on a different field subset,
determined by the execution argument (Div.Arg in Figure 3).
Specifically, an instance specified as a/N takes charge of the
a-th portion out of N total portions.
Div. Arg 1/N

Instance#1

generate

Test Div. Arg 2/N
Model

Instance#2

generate

Div. Arg N/N

Packets

Packets

Protocol
Broker

Bugs

...

...

Figure 2 shows a basic MQTT architecture that comprises a
broker, a publisher, and a subscriber. In this model, the broker
is an intermediary between publishers and subscribers. The
clients can be classified into two types: publishers, which
disseminate messages, and subscribers, which receive messages. It also provides a basic packet flow: the subscriber
first sends a subscription request (i.e., SUBSCRIBE) to the

MQTT Broker

Subscriber

Instance#N

generate

Packets

Fig. 3: Parallel fuzzing of Peach fuzzer
Feedback
Packet

Packets

Protocol

4

TABLE I: MQTT SUBSCRIBE and PUBLISH packet fields and their descriptions for Peach fuzzing

PUBLISH

Type
DUP
QoS
Retain
Length
TopicLen
Topic
ID
Msg

Basic Information
Description
Indicates the packet type, for PUBLISH it’s 3
Duplicate delivery of a PUBLISH packet
Quality of Service level for packet delivery
Whether the packet should be retained by the broker
Length of the remaining packet
Length of the Topic field
The topic where the message will be published
Packet identifier for QoS 1 and QoS 2 packets
The content to be published

SUBSCRIBE

Type
Reserved
Length
ID
TopicLen
Topic
QoS

Indicates the packet type, for SUBSCRIBE it’s 8
Reserved field, using the constant 2
Length of the remaining packet
Unique identifier for the packet
Length of the Topic field
The topic to subscribe to
Requested Quality of Service for the subscription

Packet Type

*

Field

Peach Description
Value

Size

Type

4
1
2
1
8×(1-4)
16
n
0/16
n

Flags
Choice{Flags}
Choice{Flags}
Choice{Flags}
Number
Number
String
Choice{Number}
String

3
0,1
0,1,2
0,1
len(TopicLen+Topic+ID+Msg)
len(Topic)

4
4
8×(1-4)
16
16
n
8

Flags
Flags
Number
Number
Number
String
Choice{Number}

8
2
len(ID+TopicLen+Topic+QoS)

Mutable

len(Topic)
0,1,2

The Size column shows the length of the field in bits. The len function returns the length of the region in bytes. For the Mutable column,
indicates that the field is immutable, indicates mutable, and indicates partially mutable (For example, in a Choice type containing
multiple Number elements, i.e., Choice{Number}, the individual Number elements are immutable while the overall Choice is mutable).

Although the existing parallel fuzzing method can effectively avoid task conflicts, it is not sufficient for testing the
messaging protocol since the correlation between the packets
generated by different instances is not considered. This correlation is mainly reflected in the key fields. There are mainly
two types of key fields in the messaging protocol: the resourcerelated fields and the control-related fields.
The resource-related fields primarily establish the producerconsumer dynamics between publishers and subscribers, and
these fields impact the dissemination of packets across the
broker thus should be carefully managed when generating
packets. For example, as illustrated in Figure 2 and Table I,
the Topic field plays a crucial role. When a client sends a
SUBSCRIBE packet, this field specifies the topics to subscribe
to. The broker then forwards packets related to these topics
to the appropriate subscribers. Similarly, the Topic field
in a PUBLISH packet identifies the intended topic for the
message’s payload. If a subscriber has opted into a topic
that a publisher addresses, the broker distributes the message
across relevant subscribers based on this topical alignment,
using mechanisms like wildcard matching. The absence of
a matching topic causes the broker to discard unnecessary
messages, avoiding redundant processing or dissemination.
Therefore, it is essential to optimize for relevant subscriptions
and topic targeting by publishers to reduce ineffective message
flow and system strain.
The control-related fields, such as quality of service (QoS)
and retention instructions, mainly refer to the fields that control
the message delivery process of the broker, and should therefore be carefully crafted to exercise diverse broker logic when
generating packets. For instance, MQTT supports multiple
QoS levels, affecting how messages are published and subscribed. The broker defaults to the publisher’s QoS level if it is
lower than that requested by the subscriber for the same topic.
This mechanism can trigger additional interactions between
the broker and the subscriber under certain QoS conditions.
Specifically, this CONNECT packet features numerous key
fields, with only select data elements depicted in the Table I.
Existing parallel fuzzing methods mainly focus on task

distribution across multiple instances to prevent overlap, but
they lack customization in the generation strategies of each
instance, typically employing basic random methods for packet
generation. This method is reasonable for general protocols,
since general protocols usually guarantee the independence
of different client-server interactions. However, for messaging
protocols like MQTT, the packets sent by different clients
should be correlated, especially in the key fields, to trigger
the broker’s processing logic.
C. Insight and Challenges
Insight. To address the above problem, we introduce a
collaborative parallel fuzzing strategy designed to overcome
the shortcomings of conventional parallel fuzzing methods.
This approach aims to synchronize key fields among different
fuzzing instances and leverage the shared information to
guide packet generation, thereby collaboratively exploring the
broker’s processing and forwarding logic. To this end, we need
to address the following two challenges:
C.1 Lightweight Synchronization. The first challenge is
how to synchronize information across different fuzzing instances effectively. On the one hand, one-to-one synchronization incurs significant overhead due to the need for frequent
updates to maintain consistency. On the other hand, traditional
methods that synchronize complete packets often result in
redundancy and substantial post-processing costs [5]. Therefore, it is crucial to develop a lightweight synchronization
mechanism that can effectively share essential information
across different instances, thereby facilitating parallel fuzzing.
C.2 Collaborative Packet Generation. The second challenge centers on the utilization of shared information by each
fuzzing instance to enhance packet generation, thereby collaboratively covering the diverse logic of the broker. Traditional
fuzzers, which typically employ random field generation, are
less likely to ensure that different instances produce packets
with correlated key fields. Besides, merely reusing shared
information to maintain key field consistency may not be
adequate, as such compliant cases should have been covered
in pre-release tests. We need to introduce variations while

5

Glob
Field P
Test
Model

Instance #1

...

Data
Model
+
State
Model

Div. Arg
1/N

Packet
Generation

Instance #N
Div. Arg
N/N

Packet
Generation

❷ Semantic-Aware Refinement
Key Field
Refinement

Key Field
Mutation

Local Pool #1

Packet Fixup

Global Field Pool

❶ Key Field
Synchronization

Packets

Protocol
Broker

Packets

Semantic-Aware Refinement

Bugs

Fig. 4: MPF UZZ System Overview. It mainly consists of two components: (i) a synchronization module for sharing key fields
among fuzzing instances and (ii) a semantic-aware refinement module for refining generated packets using shared information.

IV. S YSTEM D ESIGN
The MPF UZZ’s system overview, as shown in Figure 4,
follows a parallel fuzzing process that takes the same input
as traditional generation-based fuzzers. This input includes
the target protocol broker and protocol test model, which
contains data and state models of the target protocol. The
system comprises two main components: (i) an information
synchronization mechanism for sharing key fields among
fuzzing instances through local and global pools and (ii) a
semantic-aware refinement module for refining test packets
using shared field information. The system is designed to be
scalable and efficient, enabling parallel fuzzing across multiple
instances. The workflow of the system is outlined as follows:
Key Field Synchronization. Before parallel fuzzing, the
global field pool is initialized based on the data model. If
there are default values for the key fields, they are combined
into a triple of default values, Model Type and Field ID,
which are then added to the global field pool. If there is
no default value, the inherent generation strategy in the data
model will be used for generation instead of the default value.
The parallelism fuzzing process is initiated, with the fuzzing
instances being launched according to the configuration to
perform parallel testing on the protocol broker. Every fuzzing
instance maintains a local field pool throughout the testing
process. During the instance initialization phase, since the
local field pool is initially empty, the instance synchronizes
all information from the global field pool to the local pool
through an information synchronization algorithm.
Semantic-Aware Refinement. The instance starts running
in a continuous loop, generating mutated test packets. In state
S, the instance selects the data model corresponding to that
state and generates an initial packet. The Semantic-Aware
Refinement algorithm refines initial packet key fields with the
local field pool and applies a semantic-aware mutation. If there
is a corresponding index of the field in the local field pool, a
value candidate is randomly selected from the pool as a seed.

The seed is mutated by the Semantic-Aware mutator with a
certain probability. If a new value is generated, it is added to
the local field pool. The Fixup module is utilized to repair any
new fields that may cause the generated packet to become an
invalid state, ensuring its validity. The generated test packet is
then sent to the protocol broker, with the processing process
monitored to collect abnormal protocol broker states. After
a fixed interval of testing iterations, the local field pool
synchronizes with the global field pool through an information
synchronization mechanism, obtaining key messaging fields
from other instances.
A. Key Field Synchronization
In order to efficiently share information between parallel instances, we design a lightweight synchronization mechanism.
It reduces unnecessary data exchange while enabling key fields
to be shared between fuzzing instances.
Local and Global Field Pools. The local field pool contains
key message fields specific to each parallel instance, while the
global field pool stores shared key message fields across all
parallel instances.

Field_Index Value_Set

Value #1

needSync

Value #2

needSync

...

considering the fields’ semantics to help uncover anomalies.
This necessitates a generation strategy that can leverage the
shared information and incorporate field semantics, guiding
the packet generation process toward a collaborative and
comprehensive exploration of the broker’s logic.

Model_Type

Field_ID

Value #3

needSync

Fig. 5: The structure in Field Pool
The field pool retains key fields for diverse fuzzing instances
to utilize and share. Its structure, comprising various field sets,
is shown in Figure 5. Each set embodies a tuple structure of
hF ieldIndex , V alueSet i, where Field Index distinctly identifies the shared value set of the key fields. To ensure uniqueness, the tuple composition of hM odeltype , F ieldID i serves
as the internal data structure for Field Index. This demarcates disparities amidst identical fields among distinct packet
data model types. In the ensuing semantic-aware refinement
process, the pertinent field is chosen based on M odeltype .
Each pool set possesses a shared Field Index and consists
of varying field values. The value set can be perceived as

6

the seed set designated in the subsequent refinement process.
Every value signifies an instantiated instance of the field. The
following semantic-aware refinement module will elucidate
comprehensively the utilization of the value set.
Moreover, the local pool can be viewed as a collection of
4-tuple entries, as illustrated in Figure 6. Additionally, the
local pool contains a needSync flag for each value, denoting
the necessity of synchronization with the global pool the next
time. The global pool does not require this flag. Entries with
the same hM odelT ype , F ieldID i mean they share an identical
index of field and hold distinct values, thus establishing a
diverse field set. The following synchronization and refinement
algorithms will provide further clarification on the utilization
and modifications of the field pool.
Model_Type

Field_ID

Value

needSync

Fig. 6: The entry in Field Pool
Synchronization between Local and Global Pools. Leveraging the global field pool, the two steps of the synchronization mechanism can achieve higher scalability and efficiency.
Fuzzing instances often need to synchronize distinct key fields
with each other, leading to complex sharing relationships. For
example, fuzzing instances #1, #2, and #4 share field F ieldα ,
while fuzzing instances #1, #3, and #4 share field F ieldβ ,
demonstrating that the synchronized fields for instance #1 differ across its peers. Managing these relationships individually
would result in an exponential increase in complexity as more
parallel instances are added. To streamline this process, we
introduce a global shared field pool that acts as a central hub
for communication between pairs of instances. Each fuzzing
instance communicates solely with this pool to access or
update relevant information without direct interactions with
other instances. Consequently, this approach establishes a
star topology structure for information synchronization and
communication among instances.
Since the information present in the field pool is of
paramount importance for generating test packets, it is essential to synchronize the key fields across distinct fuzzing instances. Algorithm 1 describes the process of synchronization
between local field pools and global field pools, consisting of
two main steps: the Pull step and the Push step.
First, in the Pull step, we pull the fields from the global
pool using the function R EADFROM G LOBAL P OOL (Line 2).
We then iterate over the global fields. For each f ieldg in
GlobalF ields, we check if it is already in the local pool Plocal
(Line 3-4). If f ieldg is not in Plocal , we add it to the local
pool using the function A DDTO L OCAL P OOL with needSync
flag setting to False (Line 5).
Next, in the Push step, we begin by retrieving fields from
the local pool that require synchronization with the global pool
using G ET N O S YNC F IELDS, storing them in N oSyncF ields
(Line 7). We then iterate over these unsynchronized fields
in a for-loop (Line 8). For each unsynchronized f ield in
N oSyncF ields, we check if it is already in the global
pool Pgobal (Line 9). If f ield is not in Pglobal , we update
the global pool using the function U PDATETO G OBLAL P OOL
(Line 10). Finally, we mark these fields in the local pool as

Algorithm 1: Synchronization between local field
pools and global field pool
Input: Plocal : the pool of local fields
Input: Pgobal : the pool of global fields
Output: SyncPlocal : the updated pool of local fields
after synchronization
1 Pull step:
2 GlobalF ields ← R EADFROM G LOBAL P OOL (Pgobal )
3 for f ieldg ∈ GlobalF ields do
4
if f ieldg ∈
/ Plocal then
5
A DDTO L OCAL P OOL(Plocal , f ieldg , F alse)
Push step:
N oSyncF ields ← G ET N O S YNC F IELDS(Plocal )
8 for f ield ∈ N oSyncF ields do
9
if f ield ∈
/ Pglobal then
10
U PDATETO G OBAL P OOL(Pgobal , f ield)
11
S ET S YNC F LAG(Plocal , f ield, F alse)
6
7

synchronized by setting their needSync flag to false with
S ET S YNC F LAG (Line 11).
Entries in Local Field Pool
ModelType FieldID
PUBLISH

QoS

PUBLISH

Topic

SUBSCRIBE Topic

Entries in Global Field Pool

ValueSet

needSync

0

False

Sensor/temp

False

1. Pull

Sensor/humi

False

Plug/#

True=>False

2. Push

ModelType FieldID
PUBLISH

QoS

PUBLISH

Topic

SUBSCRIBE

Topic

ValueSet
0
Sensor/temp
Sensor/humi
Plug/#

Fig. 7: Illustration of synchronization process
Figure 7 shows an illustrative example for Algorithm 1. A
gray background indicates a newly added row after synchronization, while a green background indicates a modified cell.
In detail, the Pull step traverses the global field pool and adds
the non-existent entry with identification hPUBLISH, Topici
to the local field pool. Their needSync flags are set to
False simultaneously. The Push step traverses the local
field pool and updates the entries needed to be synchronized,
i.e., hSUBSCRIBE, Topici, to the global field pool. After
synchronization, the needSync flag is then set to False.
B. Semantic-Aware Refinement
After synchronizing information across parallel fuzzing instances, the instance obtained shared key message fields stored
in the local field pool. Leveraging these fields, we implement
a semantic-aware mutation strategy to refine the generated test
packets. In contrast to traditional packet generation strategies,
our algorithm utilizes the shared information provided by
different parallel instances to refine the field and applies
a semantic-aware mutation, ensuring that the key fields of
generated packets are related to each other. Consequently,
this method avoids wasting significant time and computing
resources on invalid mutations of these fields.
Algorithm 2 provides a detailed illustration of how MPF UZZ employs semantic-aware mutation to refine data packets
based on the shared key fields. The algorithm starts with two
inputs: (1) Plocal , the local key field pool, and (2) S, the
current state that activates the algorithm via its output action.

7

Data
Model

Procedure Refinement( N odeT , P acket, T )
ID ← G ET I DFROM N ODE(N odeT )
TRef ← G ET R EFERENCEDFROM M AP(T )
11
if hTRef , IDi ∈ Plocal then
12
// Key Field Refinement
13
F ieldsC ← G ET C ANDIDATES(Plocal , TRef , ID)
14
F ield ← R ANDOM C HOICE(F ieldsC )
15
// Key Field Mutation
16
F ieldM ←
A PPLY S EMANTIC AWARE M UTATOR(F ield)
17
A DDTO L OCAL P OOL(T , ID, F ieldM , F alse)
18
CurP os ← G ET P OSITION(N odeT )
19
P acket ←
A SSEMBAL F IELD(P acket, CurP os, F ieldM )
20
else
21
ChildrenN ode ← G ET C HILDREN(N odeT )
22
for N odeC ∈ ChildrenN ode do
23
Refinement( N odeC , P acket, T )
9

10

24

return

In the Refinement procedure (Lines 9-25), we first
identify the current field’s ID and the type of the reference data
packet TRef (Lines 10-11). TRef and ID are combined into a
tuple to index the local field pool for retrieval (Line 12). If
found, we extract a set of candidate fields, FieldsC , from which
we randomly select one key field, FieldS , as the mutation seed
(Lines 14-15). Next, we apply the targeted mutator to perform semantic-aware mutation on this chosen seed, obtaining
FieldM (Line 17). We then populate the original generated
data packet with the mutated key field and return it (Lines 1820). If the queried index is absent in the field pool, we collect
all child nodes of N odeT and sequentially and recursively
apply Refinement on these children (Lines 22-24), thus
implementing a refinement algorithm based on semantic-aware
mutation. Finally, upon recursively traversing the abstract
element tree, we obtain the refined packet, and employ the
F IXUP process to repair its integrity constraints, e.g., size,
length, and checksum, to form a NewPacket (Line 8). By
combining key field information and semantic-aware mutation,
we can generate higher-quality protocol test packets. These
refined packets adhere to syntax and semantics. This facilitates
a collaborative effort toward exhaustive testing of the broker’s
logic, enhancing the chances of uncovering vulnerabilities.

④ Record

Packetrefined

Topic

TopicLen

③ Mutated:
sensor/#

Local
Field Pool
TopicLen

Mutator

Topic

Topic

Packetinitial

Algorithm 2: Semantic-Aware Packet Refinement
Input: Plocal : Local Field Pool
Input: S: State which is current under fuzzing
Output: N ewP acket: Refined Packet
1 Algorithm
2
DMS ← G ET DATA M ODEL(S)
3
CurP acket ← G ENERATE PACKET(DMS )
4
T ← G ET DATA M ODELT YPE(DMS )
5
N odeR ← PARSE F IELD T REE(DMS )
6
Refinement( N odeR , CurP acket, T )
7
// Packet Fixup
8
N ewP acket ← F IXUP(CurP acket)

① Query
② Result: sensor/temp

TopicLen

We first obtain the data model DMS for state S and generate
the test data packet CurPacket, adhering to the syntax rules
described by DMS (Lines 2-3). Then, we extract the root node
NodeR and the type T of DMS (Lines 4-5) and recursively
refine CurPacket based on the element tree by calling the
Refinement procedure (Line 6).

Packetfixed

Fig. 8: Illustration of semantic-aware refinement

Figure 8 uses the MQTT PUBLISH packet (as detailed in
Table I) as an example to illustrate this process. In detail,
MPFuzz first generates the initial packet based on the data
model. Then, MPFuzz traverses the packet fields and searches
for the key fields for refinement—e.g., the Topic field in the
PUBLISH packet. MPFuzz queries the local field pool based
on Topic field’s information ( 1 ). For one selected result,
“sensor/temp” ( 2 ), the semantic-aware mutation operator is
applied to generate a new value, e.g., “sensor/#”. This mutated
value, on the one hand, correlates with the key field generated
by other instances and thus will be populated to the Topic
field to generate the refined packet ( 3 ). On the other hand,
this new value of the Topic field will be stored in the local
field pool for future synchronization with other instances ( 4 ).
Meanwhile, direct population to the initial packet may cause
conflicts with other fields, e.g., the TopicLen field. Therefore, MPFuzz finally applies fixup operations to ensure the
correctness of these relationship fields.
C. Implementation
We have implemented a prototype of MPF UZZ based on the
widely-used generation-based fuzzer Peach [7]. We leverage
the structure of the data model defined in Peach Pits file,
adding new element types and attributes to indicate key fields
that require synchronization and are subject to semanticaware refinement within the data model. The Synchronization
Mechanism is implemented using shared memory to store
the global field pool and employing a semaphore based on
the “first-come, first-served” principle to ensure only one
instance can access the global field pool at a time. Each
instance maintains the local field pool within its own process
memory and periodically persists it to disk. We utilize the
DllImport feature in the .Net framework to load libc
and invoke Linux POSIX-compliant API calls through it to
create, read, and write to shared memory. Interfaces defined in
System.Runtime.Serialization are used to serialize
sets from the field pools into shared memory, facilitating the
mapping of objects. This approach supports switching between
different serializers, such as BinaryFormatter, Xml, etc. For
the Semantic-Aware Refinement, we introduced new mutators
for the key fields and a new packet generation strategy based
on the shared information, as described in Section IV-B. The
new mutator operates specifically based on the semantics of
the fields, for example, by attempting to incorporate wildcards
and keywords specified in the protocol standards.

8

V. E VALUATION
In this section, we evaluate MPF UZZ to answer the following three research questions:
RQ1 How does the proposed parallel fuzzing strategy compare
to the traditional parallel-mode fuzzing?
RQ2 How does MPF UZZ’s performance compare to the singlemode protocol fuzzers on identical computing resources?
RQ3 Is MPF UZZ effective in exposing unknown vulnerabilities
in real-world IoT messaging protocols?
A. Experiment setup
Subjects. We selected six open-source implementations
of three widely-used IoT messaging protocols: MQTT [13],
CoAP [14], and AMQP [15]. Table II provides detailed
information about the selected subjects.
Compared Tools. We select two widely used protocol
fuzzers supporting parallel fuzzing, Peach [7] and AFLNet [5],
for comparison. They are representative of generation-based
and mutation-based fuzzers, respectively. Peach is the base
fuzzer for MPF UZZ, and we compare MPF UZZ with Peach
to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed parallel fuzzing
optimization strategy. AFLNet’s parallel fuzzing capabilities
are inherited from its base fuzzer AFL. They establish parallel
fuzzing by synchronizing the packet corpus among different
instances. However, due to the lack of format awareness,
AFLNet lacks a way to recognize the valuable fields in the
synchronized packets for further utilization. Besides, we also
compare MPF UZZ with two representative parallel fuzzers,
SPFuzz [16] and AFLTeam [10], to evaluate the effectiveness
of our optimization strategy for parallel fuzzing. Given that
AFLTeam mainly targets traditional applications [17], we
customized its code to support protocol fuzzing. For the
initialization, since SPFuzz is also built upon Peach, we utilize
identical Peach Pit files [12] for both SPFuzz and MPF UZZ.
We provide the packets from these Peach Pit files as initial
seeds for AFLNet and AFLTeam, ensuring a consistent starting
point across all fuzzers following established work [16], [18].
Metrics and Settings. We employed three metrics for our
evaluation: branch coverage achieved, speed-up to reach the

same coverage as the baseline fuzzers in 24 hours, and the
number of unique bugs detected. The first metric is commonly
used to measure the effectiveness of fuzzers, the second metric
assesses the efficiency of parallel fuzzing and has also been
used in previous studies [16], [19], and the third metric
indicates vulnerability detection capabilities. Besides, since
the fuzzing performance fluctuates to a certain degree due to
the inherent randomness, we ran each fuzzing tool on each
selected project with a 24-hour time budget and repeated each
24-hour experiment five times to establish statistical significance of results [20]. For fairness, each fuzzing campaign
runs on a Docker container with 4 CPU cores and 8G RAM.
B. Efficiency of the Optimized Parallel Fuzzing Strategy

To evaluate the efficiency of our optimization strategy for
parallel fuzzing, we first compared MPF UZZ to other stateof-the-art parallel-mode fuzzers. Each fuzzer was run with
four instances on each project. We collected and analyzed the
number of branches covered by each fuzzer over 24 hours
and calculated the speed-up of MPF UZZ to reach the same
coverage level as the compared fuzzers. The overall results
and improvements are summarized in Table III. On average,
MPF UZZ achieves a speed-up of 174.5×, 607.2×, 4.1×, and
570.2× compared to Peach, AFLNet, SPFuzz, and AFLteam,
respectively, showing a substantial efficiency improvement
in parallel fuzzing. Meanwhile, MPF UZZ achieves a higher
branch coverage within 24 hours. Specifically, compared to the
baseline fuzzers, MPF UZZ increases branch coverage by an
average of 6.1%, 20.2%, 1.9%, and 17.4%, respectively. This
coverage improvement is attributed to the efficiency-boosting
since MPF UZZ can generate more correlated packets early on,
thus covering more branches given the limited time budget.
Figure 9 shows the coverage growth trends of each fuzzer
over time on the selected projects. The plots indicate that both
MPF UZZ and Peach exhibit effectiveness at the beginning
of execution, displaying a rapid increase in branch coverage.
However, after a certain point, Peach tends to stagnate and
reach a state where increasing branch coverage becomes
challenging. Table III demonstrates that MPF UZZ achieves
the same branch coverage at a speed of 2.6× to 553.8×
compared to the original Peach parallel mode. Besides, due
TABLE II: Detailed information about the selected subjects
to format unawareness and the lack of effective parallelization
for IoT messaging protocols, AFLNet also exhibits a slow
Subject
Protocol
#Stars
#LoC
Description
increase in branch coverage. AFLTeam introduces a task
A MQTT implementation
Mosquitto*
MQTT
8,275
52k
in the Eclipse IoT project.
division strategy for parallelized fuzzing, thus achieving a
Ultra-lightweight, blazinghigher branch coverage than AFLNet. However, it is unaware
fast messaging broker/bus
NanoMQ*
MQTT
1,326
262k
for IoT edge and SDV.
of the correlation between packets generated by different
Embedded networking libinstances and the packet format, leading to a slower increase in
Mongoose
MQTT
10,471
6k
rary and web server.
branch coverage compared to MPF UZZ. In contrast, powered
A CoAP implementation
ideal for resourcelibcoap*
CoAP
763
35k
by the key field synchronizing mechanism and semanticconstrained IoT devices.
aware refinement, MPF UZZ consistently delivers high-quality
A framework offering
packets generated by collaborative fuzzing instances, which
modular and scalable IoT
Californium
CoAP
721
133k
application support.
helps alleviate the coverage plateau situation and achieve a
An advanced message
sustained increase in branch coverage.
queuing protocol aims to
Qpid
AMQP
85
217k
Notably, MPFuzz shows a less pronounced advantage over
unify message passing.
- ‘*’: MPF UZZ exposed unknown bugs in the corresponding project. #Stars: SPFuzz compared to other baseline fuzzers. This is because
the number of stars on GitHub. #LoC: the number of lines of code.
SPFuzz also proposes an optimization strategy for parallel

9

TABLE III: Average number of branches covered by MPF UZZ and the baseline fuzzers in parallel mode within 24 hours, all
with four fuzzing instances.
Subject

MPF UZZ

Mosquitto
Mongoose
NanoMQ
libcoap
Californium
Qpid
AVERAGE

Comparison with AFLNet
AFLNet Improv Speed-up
4,937
32.6%
597.1×
833
3.1%
22.0×
7,433
26.9%
1514.3×
3,742
16.2%
524.1×
12,152
22.1%
378.8×
20.2%
607.2×

Comparison with SPFuzz
SPFuzz Improv Speed-up
6,320
3.5%
4.8×
844
1.8%
1.8×
9,450
-0.2%
0.9×
4,238
2.6%
1.37×
4,214
0.8%
13.6×
14,447
2.7%
2.0×
1.9%
4.1×

Comparison with AFLTeam
AFLTeam Improv Speed-up
5268
24.2%
734.4 ×
838
2.5%
7.6 ×
7641
23.4% 1193.7 ×
3734
16.5%
592.3 ×
-×
12333
20.3%
322.9 ×
17.4%
570.2×

AFLNet and AFLTeam do not support Californium due to its Java-based implementation.

6000

14000

5000

12000

4000
3000
2000
1000
0

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
AFLNet-Parallel
SPFuzz
AFLTeam

Branch Coverage

Branch Coverage

*

6,544
859
9,429
4,350
4,248
14,843

Comparison with Peach
Peach Improv Speed-up
5,774
13.3%
553.8×
829
3.6%
2.6×
9,025
4.5%
391.4×
4,016
8.3%
77.3×
4,205
1.0%
12.4×
14,019
5.9%
9.6×
6.1%
174.5×

8000
6000
4000

850

4100

800

Branch Coverage

Branch Coverage

(b) Qpid (AMQP)

4200

3800
3700
3600
3500

750
700
650

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
SPFuzz

600

(d) Mongoose (MQTT)

(c) Californium (CoAP)
4000

8000
7000

4000

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
AFLNet-Parallel
SPFuzz
AFLTeam

Branch Coverage

Branch Coverage

9000

5000

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
AFLNet-Parallel
SPFuzz
AFLTeam
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

6000

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
AFLNet-Parallel
SPFuzz
AFLTeam
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

(a) Mosquitto (MQTT)

3900

Mosquitto
6778
(+7.2%)

10000

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

4000

TABLE IV: Average code branches achieved by adapting MPF UZZ on SPFuzz and improvement over SPFuzz in 24 hours

3000
2000
1000
0

MPFuzz
Peach-Parallel
AFLNet-Parallel
SPFuzz
AFLTeam

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
Time (hours)

(e) Nanomq (MQTT)

(f) libcoap (CoAP)

Fig. 9: Average number of branches covered by MPF UZZ and
baseline parallel fuzzers within 24 hours on each IoT protocol
implementation. All paralyzed fuzzers are run with 4 instances.

protocol fuzzing building on Peach. SPFuzz focuses on minimizing task conflicts and distributing workload across different
instances. This method is complementary rather than directly
competitive with the optimization of MPF UZZ. For the IoT
messaging protocols, the key fields generated by different
fuzzing instances should be correlated (as per MPF UZZ’s
idea), while non-key field generation tasks should be allocated separately to minimize conflicts (as per SPFuzz’s idea).
To further show their complementary relationship, we adapt
MPF UZZ on SPFuzz and evaluate the combined performance.
As shown in Table IV, the combined tool achieves an average
increase of 3.9% in coverage than SPFuzz. This result further
demonstrates the importance of correlated key field generation
for IoT messaging protocols in parallel fuzzing.

Mongoose
862
(+2.1%)

NanoMQ
9661
(+2.2%)

libcoap
4545
(+7.2%)

Californium
4251
(+0.9%)

Qpid
15002
(+3.8%)

C. Comparison with Single-Mode Fuzzers
To demonstrate the effectiveness of the parallel mechanism,
we also compared MPF UZZ to single-mode fuzzers with the
same computing resources. Specifically, we first set up four
MPF UZZ instances in parallel mode and collected the number
of branches covered in all six targets within 6 hours. Then, to
have a fair comparison, we ran Peach and AFLNet in single
mode and collected their branch coverage within 24 hours.
Table V shows the branches covered by each fuzzer. We can
find that MPF UZZ always performed better than other fuzzers
in all target protocols. On average, MPF UZZ achieves 10.6%
and 28.3% higher branch coverage than Peach and AFLNet in
single mode, respectively. On all the selected projects, MPF UZZ achieves the upper bound in branch coverage, showing
a substantial lead on these projects. This substantial improvement in branch coverage emphasizes the importance of parallel
fuzzing for IoT messaging protocols since their application
scenarios require multiple instances to collaboratively generate
test packets to cover diverse functionalities.
TABLE V: Average number of branches covered by MPF UZZ (with four instances) in 6 hours and the baselines Peach
and AFLNet in single mode within 24 hours
Subject
Mosquitto
Mongoose
NanoMQ
libcoap
Californium
Qpid
AVERAGE

MPF UZZ
6,544
840
9,328
4,288
4,248
14,843

Peach
5,120
801
8,703
3,969
4,011
13,482

Improv
27.8%
4.9%
7.2%
8.0%
5.8%
10.1%
10.6%

AFLNet
4,265
786
7,284
3,511
11,311

Improv
53.4%
6.9%
28.1%
22.1%
31.2%
28.3%

D. Bug Detection Capability
To show the effectiveness of MPF UZZ in detecting unknown
vulnerabilities, we utilize AddressSanitizer [21] and UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer [22] to enhance the target program and
use the crashes identified by MPF UZZ to represent its vulnerability detection ability. Furthermore, to eliminate duplicate
entries, we utilize the stack traces in the Sanitizer report for
bug de-duplication and only consider unique vulnerabilities.

10

TABLE VI: Summary of the Exposed Vulnerabilities
No.

Subject

Description

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

NanoMQ
NanoMQ
NanoMQ
NanoMQ
libcoap
Mosquitto
Mosquitto
NanoMQ
NanoMQ
Mosquitto
Mongoose

Heap buffer overflow in mqtt codec.c when handling a PUBLISH request
SEGV in nni msg set cmd type of message.c caused by null pointer
Heap buffer overflow in the get var integer in mqtt parser.c
Null pointer passed as the second argument of strncpy in topic filtern
Buffer over-read via the function coap parse oscore conf mem
Null pointer passed to memcmp in broker handle publish.c
Null pointer dereference when handling a CONNECT request
Heap buffer overflow via the function nmq subinfo decode
Null pointer dereference in decoding subinfo decode and unsubinfo decode
Memory leak occurs when handling v5 CONNECT packets
Heap buffer overflow when parsing MQTT CMD PUBLISH message

*

AFLNet

AFLTeam

Peach

SPFuzz

MPF UZZ

CVE ID
2024-31036
2023-34491
2024-31040
2024-31041
2023-35862
2024-31038
2024-31039
2023-33659
2023-29996
2023-3592
2023-2905

CVEs are anonymized for the review. means that the fuzzer can detect the corresponding vulnerability. #1-#7 are previously unknown vulnerabilities
exposed by MPF UZZ and we also show whether other fuzzers can detect them. #8-#11 are known high-severity vulnerabilities in the tested subjects.


Along with the code coverage and fuzzing speed improvement, MPF UZZ has also exposed 7 serious previously
unknown vulnerabilities on the selected subject projects. All
the vulnerabilities have been assigned with CVE identifiers and
have been fixed by their respective vendors. We also collected
statistics on whether other baseline fuzzers can detect these
vulnerabilities. Table VI summarizes the new bugs exposed
by MPF UZZ (#1-#7). Specifically, AFLNet, AFLTeam, Peach,
and SPFuzz can only expose 2, 4, 4, and 5 bugs, a strict subset
of the bugs exposed by MPF UZZ. These implementations are
widely used in IoT devices and have been thoroughly tested by
the community, as shown in Table II. Even so, MPF UZZ can
still detect new vulnerabilities that may pose serious threats to
protocol security. Besides, we collected 4 high-severity CVEs
previously detected in the selected subjects from the National
Vulnerability Database to further evaluate each fuzzer’s bugfinding ability. As shown in Table VI (#8-#11), MPF UZZ
can reproduce all these known bugs, while other fuzzers can
only reproduce 2, 2, 2, and 3 CVEs, respectively. These bugs
pose potential hazards for devices running these protocols. We
provide a case study as follows.
Case Study: Bug #1 in NanoMQ. Figure 10 illustrates
a heap-buffer-overflow vulnerability discovered by MPF UZZ
in NanoMQ. The bug manifests as a heap-buffer-overflow
error via the read_byte function (invoked in Line 12) in
MQTT code.c module of NanoMQ. When processing a malformed MQTT message generated by MPFuzz, the program
attempts to read beyond the allocated buffer via the pointer
buf->curpos in Line 5. This bug can pose a serious threat
to the security of IoT devices and attackers may use it to
conduct a Denial of Service attack.
VI. R ELATED W ORK
A. Protocol Testing
Protocol Fuzzing. Fuzzing has gained widespread acceptance as a testing approach for various protocol implementations, intending to automatically detect vulnerabilities [6],
[11], [23], [24]. Protocol fuzzing can be divided into two main
categories: generation-based and mutation-based. Mutationbased approaches [5], [25]–[28] treat the entire packet sequence as a single seed where new packet sequences are
generated by mutating existing seeds. However, unaware of the
protocol format, trivial mutation operations remain limited in
generating valid packets and cannot explore a range of protocol

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26

/* Function to read a byte from a buffer */
int read_byte(struct pos_buf *buf, uint8_t *val) {
if ((buf->endpos - buf->curpos) < 1)
return MQTT_ERR_NOMEM;
*val = *(buf->curpos++);
}
/* Function to decode properties from a buffer */
property * decode_buf_properties(uint8_t *packet,
uint32_t packet_len, uint32_t *pos, uint32_t *len,
bool copy_value) {
...
// parsing the properties section of the message
while (buf.curpos < buf.endpos) {
if (0 != read_byte(&buf, &prop_id)) {
property_free(list);
break;
}
property *cur_prop = NULL;
property_type_enmu type =
property_get_value_type(prop_id);
cur_prop = property_parse(&buf, cur_prop,
prop_id, type, copy_value);
property_append(list, cur_prop);
}
out:
current_pos += (prop_len);
*pos = current_pos;
*len = prop_len;
return list;
}



Fig. 10: The simplified code snippets related to the Bug#1.

implementation logics. Instead, generation-based fuzzers are
format-aware and thus can generate valid packets with high
probability. Our work focuses on optimizing parallel fuzzing
for generation-based approaches.
Generation-based approaches [7], [8], [29] take a userprovided protocol model as input and generate packets that
conform to the protocol model [30]. Recent works optimize
generation-based protocol fuzzing from different perspectives.
Based on the original format, Bleem [18] introduces a packetsequence-oriented generation strategy. By analyzing the output
packet sequence, Bleem provides an effective feedback mechanism in the blackbox setting and supports guided fuzzing
based on runtime state-space tracking. Meanwhile, Bleem
generates protocol-logic-aware packet sequences by leveraging
the observed interactive traffic. Snipuzz [31] automatically
infers packet format in IoT scenarios by employing the server
response to enhance fuzzing efficiency. It uses a hierarchical
clustering strategy to infer the grammatical role of each packet
byte by analyzing the server response. ChatAFL [19] extends
the existing model by utilizing the knowledge from large
language models (LLMs) to construct grammars for protocol





11

message types. This enables it to mutate messages or predict
subsequent messages in a sequence, thereby improving test
input generation. Peach* [23] optimizes packet generalization
by integrating coverage guidance. It collects coverage information during tests to identify valuable packets that uncover new
execution paths. These packets are then dissected and used
to generate higher-quality test packets. Charon [11] enriches
the transition details of the state model by employing state
guidance. It optimizes cross-state code coverage in the fuzzing
of ICS protocols, surpassing the conventional emphasis on individual states. These approaches primarily focus on protocol
testing in single fuzzing instances, while our work concentrates
on parallel fuzzing. Therefore, these optimization strategies are
orthogonal to the technique we proposed and can be applied
to MPF UZZ to obtain better fuzzing performance.
Messaging Protocol Testing. There are also some works
focusing on testing messaging protocols. MPInspector [32] is
designed to enhance the security of IoT messaging protocols
by combining model learning with formal analysis. It operates
in three primary phases: comprehending the functionality of
the messaging protocol, identifying applicable security standards, and verifying adherence to these standards. MQTTactic [33] conducts systematic security analysis of open-source
MQTT broker based on static analysis and formal model
checking. It semi-automatically checks the security of MQTT
broker implementations and focuses on verifying MQTT
broker implementations against generated security properties,
specifically targeting authorization-related issues. These works
are mainly about designing properties to detect vulnerabilities.
These properties can be integrated into MPF UZZ to enhance
the detection capability for the property-related bugs.
B. Parallel Fuzzing
Existing work on optimizing parallel fuzzing has focused
on various aspects, such as task division, information synchronization, and task scheduling. OPAFL [34] develops a multicandidate scheduling system based on input-related tasks.
EnFuzz [35] ensembles diverse fuzzers to broaden fuzzing
capability. PAFL [9] divides tasks based on the coverage
bitmap and synchronizes guiding information across fuzzing
instances. AFLTeam [10] further enhances task division and
scheduling. It leverages an attributed graph incorporating
program call graph and fuzzing information and applies
techniques from graph partitioning and search algorithms to
optimize the task allocation. SPFuzz [16] leverages the stateful
path generated by analyzing the protocol state model for better
task division and scheduling. Instead, MPF UZZ leverages the
feature of IoT messaging protocols and mainly focuses on
the collaborative refinement of certain key fields generated
by different instances. Therefore, MPF UZZ can be integrated
with these works to further optimize the parallel fuzzing for
IoT messaging protocols.
Some research concentrates on distributed fuzzing techniques across multiple machines [36]–[38]. These techniques
typically employ a centralized architecture, with the main
node responsible for task scheduling and information synchronization. ClusterFuzz, the fuzzing backend of OSS-Fuzz [39],

operates on 30,000 computing cores. Unlike these works, our
work mainly focuses on parallel fuzzing on a single machine.
VII. D ISCUSSION
Adaption to Other Fuzzers. MPF UZZ mainly focuses on
optimizing the parallel fuzzing process for the generationbased fuzzers. Since our approach relies on the synchronization of key fields and then adapts customized mutation
strategies based on the shared information and field semantics,
our approach requires the protocol format to be available.
Therefore, it may not be directly applicable to mutation-based
fuzzers, which generate test cases by mutating existing test
cases without considering the protocol format. If provided
with the information about the key fields, our approach can
be also adapted to the existing parallel fuzzing mechanism of
mutation-based fuzzers.
For generation-based fuzzers, although our optimization is
built on the Peach framework, it can be easily adapted to other
generation-based fuzzers with parallel fuzzing capabilities. On
the one hand, the Peach framework is widely used in the
fuzzing community, and many fuzzing tools are built on top
of it. Many recent works are proposed to optimize Peach
for effective protocol fuzzing from different perspectives,
MPF UZZ can be easily adapted to these tools. For example,
PAVFuzz [24] optimizes the fuzzing by dynamically learning
the relationships between the fields in the protocol packets sent
by a single fuzzer. Charon [11] employs cross-state guidance
to improve the efficiency of each fuzzing instance. Since all
these optimization strategies are focused on individual fuzzing
instances, and our optimization is orthogonal to them, MPF UZZ can be easily integrated into these tools by integrating
the proposed key field synchronization module and semanticaware refinement strategy to further improve their performance
in parallelly fuzzing IoT messaging protocols. On the other
hand, other generation-based fuzzers that do not currently
support parallel mode, such as Boofuzz [8], follow the same
packet generation process as Peach, as described in Section II.
Therefore, once they support parallel fuzzing, our optimization
can be also easily adapted to them.
Scalability to Distributed Parallel Fuzzing. The current
design of MPF UZZ is based on the assumption that the fuzzing
instances are running on the same machine. Some recent
works focus on distributed fuzzing techniques that utilize
multiple machines, such as P-Fuzz [36] and UltraFuzz [37].
The proposed synchronization mechanism (in Section IV-A)
based on global and local field pools remains applicable to
distributed frameworks. The distributed fuzzing technique
typically adopts a controller-worker architecture [40], where
the controller node oversees and coordinates the worker nodes
during fuzzing. Therefore, the global field pool can be implemented on the central controller node while each worker node
maintains its local field pool. The synchronization between the
global and local field pools can be implemented by following
Algorithm 1, which involves two steps, i.e., the Pull and Push
steps, as illustrated in Figure 7. During synchronization, the
interaction operations, like G ET N O S YNC F IELDS and R EAD FROM G LOBAL P OOL in Algorithm 1, can be implemented

12

using Remote Procedure Call (RPC). The invoking results are
the entries from the field pools. To support its exchange among
machines via the network, we can design a protocol based on
Protobuf [41] that adheres to the structure of a field pool entry.
Although network communication introduces overhead, the
structure of the field pool and the synchronization algorithm
we propose help minimize the required data exchange.
VIII. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we proposed MPF UZZ, a generation-based
parallel fuzzing tool designed for securing IoT messaging
protocols. MPF UZZ employs an information synchronization
mechanism to share key fields in IoT messaging protocols
among different parallel instances facilitated by the global field
pool during the fuzzing process. The synchronized information
and characteristics of the IoT messaging protocol are used by
the fuzzing instance to implement a semantic-aware mutation
strategy for refining the generated test packets. Compared to
the traditional parallel fuzzing strategy, MPF UZZ is capable of
bridging the gap between isolated fuzzing instances, allowing
data packets generated by different instances to be related
and thereby significantly enhancing fuzzing efficiency. Our
experiments show that, compared to the state-of-the-art protocol fuzzers, MPF UZZ achieves higher branch coverage, and
the parallel fuzzing efficiency is also significantly improved.
Furthermore, MPF UZZ exposed 7 previously unknown bugs.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive feedback and suggestions. This research is sponsored in part by the National Key Research and Development Project (No. 2022YFB3104000) and NSFC Program (No.92167101, 62021002).
R EFERENCES
[1] E. Sisinni, A. Saifullah, S. Han, U. Jennehag, and M. Gidlund, “Industrial internet of things: Challenges, opportunities, and directions,” IEEE
transactions on industrial informatics, 2018.
[2] “Industrial Internet of Things and its Applications in Industry 4.0: State
of The Art,” Computer Communications, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366420319964
[3] A.-R. Sadeghi, C. Wachsmann, and M. Waidner, “Security and privacy
challenges in industrial internet of things,” in DAC, 2015.
[4] K. Tange, M. De Donno, X. Fafoutis, and N. Dragoni, “A systematic
survey of industrial internet of things security: Requirements and fog
computing opportunities,” Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 2020.
[5] V.-T. Pham, M. Böhme, and A. Roychoudhury, “AFLNET: A greybox
fuzzer for network protocols,” 2020 ICST.
[6] Z. Luo, F. Zuo, Y. Jiang, J. Gao, X. Jiao, and J. Sun, “Polar: Function
code aware fuzz testing of ICS protocol,” ACM TECS, 2019.
[7] M. Eddington, “Peach fuzzing platform.” https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/
security-products/protocol-fuzzer-ce.
[8] jtpereyda, “BooFuzz: Network protocol fuzzing for humans,” https://
github.com/jtpereyda/boofuzz.
[9] J. Liang, Y. Jiang, Y. Chen, M. Wang, C. Zhou, and J. Sun, “PAFL:
extend fuzzing optimizations of single mode to industrial parallel mode,”
ESEC/FSE, 2018.
[10] V.-T. Pham, M.-D. Nguyen, Q.-T. Ta, T. Murray, and B. I. Rubinstein,
“Towards systematic and dynamic task allocation for collaborative
parallel fuzzing,” in ASE. IEEE, 2021.
[11] F. Zuo, Z. Luo, J. Yu, T. Chen, Z. Xu, A. Cui, and Y. Jiang, “Vulnerability detection of ICS protocols via cross-state fuzzing,” IEEE Trans.
Comput. Aided Des. Integr. Circuits Syst., 2022.

[12] P. Tech., “Peach fuzzer configuration file (Peach Pit).” Website, https:
//peachtech.gitlab.io/peach-fuzzer-community/v3/PeachPit.html.
[13] A. Banks, E. Briggs, R. Coppen, and K. Borgendale, “MQTT
Version 5.0,” OASIS Standard, November 2018. [Online]. Available:
http://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/os/mqtt-v5.0-os.html
[14] C. Bormann and K. Hartke, “Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP),”
RFC 7252. [Online]. Available: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7252
[15] OASIS,
“Advanced
message
queuing
protocol
(AMQP).”
[Online].
Available:
http://docs.oasis-open.org/amqp/core/v1.0/
amqp-core-complete-v1.0.pdf
[16] J. Yu, Z. Luo, F. Xia, Y. Zhao, H. Shi, and Y. Jiang, “SPFuzz: Stateful
path based parallel fuzzing for protocols in autonomous vehicles,” in
Design Automation Conference (DAC), 2024.
[17] MelbourneFuzzingHub,
“AFLTeam,”
https://github.com/
MelbourneFuzzingHub/aflteam.
[18] Z. Luo, J. Yu, F. Zuo, J. Liu, Y. Jiang, T. Chen, A. Roychoudhury,
and J. Sun, “Bleem: Packet sequence oriented fuzzing for protocol
implementations,” 2023 Usenix Security Symposium.
[19] R. Meng, M. Mirchev, M. Böhme, and A. Roychoudhury, “Large
language model guided protocol fuzzing,” in NDSS, 2024.
[20] G. Klees, A. Ruef, B. Cooper, S. Wei, and M. W. Hicks, “Evaluating
fuzz testing,” 2018 ACM SIGSAC CCS.
[21] K. Serebryany, D. Bruening, A. Potapenko, and D. Vyukov, “AddressSanitizer: A fast address sanity checker,” 2012 USENIX ATC.
[22] Clang, “Clang 15.0.0 documentation, undefinedbehaviorsanitizer,” https:
//clang.llvm.org/docs/UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer.html.
[23] Z. Luo, F. Zuo, Y. Shen, X. Jiao, W. Chang, and Y. Jiang, “ICS protocol
fuzzing: Coverage guided packet crack and generation,” ACM/IEEE
Design Automation Conference (DAC), 2020.
[24] F. Zuo, Z. Luo, J. Yu, Z. Liu, and Y. Jiang, “PAVFuzz: State-sensitive
fuzz testing of protocols in autonomous vehicles,” DAC, 2021.
[25] R. Natella, “StateAFL: Greybox fuzzing for stateful network servers,”
ArXiv, vol. abs/2110.06253, 2021.
[26] S. Schumilo, C. Aschermann, A. Jemmett, A. R. Abbasi, and T. Holz,
“Nyx-net: network fuzzing with incremental snapshots,” Seventeenth
European Conference on Computer Systems, 2022.
[27] Y.-H. Zou, J.-J. Bai, J. Zhou, J. Tan, C. Qin, and S.-M. Hu, “TCP-Fuzz:
Detecting memory and semantic bugs in TCP stacks with fuzzing,” 2021
USENIX Annual Technical Conference.
[28] J. Ba, M. Böhme, Z. Mirzamomen, and A. Roychoudhury, “Stateful
greybox fuzzing,” 2022 Usenix Security Symposium.
[29] F. Wu, Z. Luo, Y. Zhao, Q. Du, J. Yu, R. Peng, H. Shi, and Y. Jiang, “Logos: Log guided fuzzing for protocol implementations,” in International
Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA), 2024.
[30] Z. Luo, K. Liang, Y. Zhao, F. Wu, J. Yu, H. Shi, and Y. Jiang, “DynPRE:
Protocol reverse engineering via dynamic inference,” in NDSS, 2024.
[31] X. Feng, R. Sun, X. Zhu, M. Xue, S. Wen, D. Liu, S. Nepal, and
Y. Xiang, “Snipuzz: Black-box fuzzing of IoT firmware via message
snippet inference,” 2021 ACM SIGSAC CCS.
[32] Q. Wang, S. Ji, Y. Tian, X. Zhang, B. Zhao, Y. Kan, Z. Lin, C. Lin,
S. Deng, A. X. Liu, and R. Beyah, “MPInspector: A systematic and automatic approach for evaluating the security of IoT messaging protocols,”
in USENIX Security, 2021.
[33] B. Yuan, Z. Song, Y. Jia, Z. Lu, D. Zou, H. Jin, and L. Xing,
“MQTTactic: Security analysis and verification for logic flaws in mqtt
implementations,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2024.
[34] S. Li, R. Li, J. Ye, and C. Tang, “Adaptive parallel fuzzing with multicandidate task scheduling,” Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 2020.
[35] Y. Chen, Y. Jiang, F. Ma, J. Liang, M. Wang, C. Zhou, X. Jiao, and
Z. Su, “EnFuzz: Ensemble fuzzing with seed synchronization among
diverse fuzzers,” in USENIX Security Symposium, 2018.
[36] C. Song, X. Zhou, Q. Yin, X. He, H. Zhang, and K. Lu, “P-fuzz: a
parallel grey-box fuzzing framework,” Applied Sciences, 2019.
[37] X. Zhou, P. Wang, C. Liu, T. Yue, Y. Liu, C. Song, K. Lu, Q. Yin, and
X. Han, “UltraFuzz: Towards resource-saving in distributed fuzzing,”
IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 2020.
[38] S. Österlund, E. Geretto, A. Jemmett, E. Güler, P. Görz, T. Holz,
C. Giuffrida, and H. Bos, “CollabFuzz: A framework for collaborative
fuzzing,” European Workshop on Systems Security, 2021.
[39] Google, “OSS-Fuzz,” https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz.
[40] Microsoft, “Microsoft Writing Style Guide, master/slave,” https:
//learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/
m/master-slave.
[41] Google, “Protocol Buffers - Google’s data interchange format,” https:
//github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf.

